unit 4 
thermodynamics
2 marks 

isolated system 
An isolated system is a thermodynamic system that cannot exchange either energy 
or matter outside the boundaries of the system. 
There are two ways in which this may occur:
The system may be so distant from another system that it cannot interact with them.
The system may be enclosed such that neither energy nor mass may enter or exit.

closed system
In the field of thermodynamics, a closed system can be defined as a system in which 
the exchange of energy (in the form of heat or work, for instance) is allowed but the 
exchange of matter is not (with respect the surroundings of the system). 

open system
An open system can exchange both energy and matter with its surroundings. The stovetop 
example would be an open system, because heat and water vapor can be lost to the air.

adiabatic process
adiabatic process, in thermodynamics, change occurring within a system as a result of transfer 
of energy to or from the system in the form of work only; i.e., no heat is transferred. A rapid 
expansion or contraction of a gas is very nearly adiabatic. 

isothermal PROCESS
An isothermal process is a thermodynamic process in which the temperature of a system remains 
constant. The transfer of heat into or out of the system happens so slowly that thermal equilibrium 
is maintained.

isobaric process
An Isobaric process is a thermodynamic process taking place at constant pressure. The term 
isobaric has been derived from the Greek words “iso” and “baros” meaning equal pressure. As 
such, the constant pressure is obtained when the volume is expanded or contracted

isochoric process
In thermodynamics, an isochoric process, also called a constant-volume process, an isovolumetric
 process, or an isometric process, is a thermodynamic process during which the volume of the 
closed system undergoing such a process remains constant.

internal energy
Internal energy increases with rising temperature and with changes of state or phase from solid to 
liquid and liquid to gas. 
Internal Energy of a Closed System
For a closed system the internal energy is essentially defined by
ΔU = q + W
Where
U is the change in internal energy of a system during a process
q is the heat
W is the mechanical work.

enthaply
Enthalpy is the measurement of energy in a thermodynamic system. The quantity of enthalpy 
equals to the total content of heat of a system, equivalent to the system's internal energy plus 
the product of volume and pressure.

entropy
entropy, the measure of a system's thermal energy per unit temperature that is unavailable for 
doing useful work. Because work is obtained from ordered molecular motion, the amount of 
entropy is also a measure of the molecular disorder, or randomness, of a system.

spontaneous process
In thermodynamics, a spontaneous process is a process which occurs without any external input 
to the system.

non spontaneous process
A nonspontaneous reaction is a chemical reaction in which the standard change in free energy is 
positive and energy is absorbed

 2 derivation
gibbs free energy derivation
gibs helmtz wall

unit 5 
organic
sn1,sn2 (steps, ex, mechanism)
e1 e2 (
oxidizing n reducing agent
drugs(def affects)
synthesis of paracetemol n aspirin
isomerism(tatomers,chain func.............
enainomers daisterormers meso componds
structure(ficher seahourse newmann)